Contact Picker, that sounds pretty cool.
I'm not sure if it's too useful,
unless you have a social network, but
it sounds interesting.
So with this API, we can read
contacts from the user's database.
This is mainly targeting mobile devices,
because on desktop,
you don't have a contact default app,
but on iOS and Android it works.
On iOS it's an experimental API,
so you need to enable it manually,
on Android it works.
You define the properties that you wanna
get, like I want the name, the email, and
the phone number.
If you want one,
the user should pick one or multiple, so
you won't get the database.
The user will see a dialog, and
he will pick one or more contacts.
And based on user selection,
you will get back into the contacts
variable the array of contacts
that the user picked, okay?
What are you going to do
with that is your problem.
So it's not about the API.
So you get the email, you send that
to your server, it's up to you.
Fullscreen API, this is the one that
we have been using in Cookie Masters.
Because we were starting the cookie,
then it was going full screen.
It's actually simple,
you just take a domElement,
a div, a section, and
you call requestFullscreen.
There is only one bad part here,
Safari uses prefix.
Remember I mentioned that we were
about to see two API's with a prefix,
this is a second one.
So it's
domElement.webKitrequestFullscreen, okay?
You can get the current fullscreen element
with document.fullscreenElement, and
you can exitFullscreen
element at any time.
In this case we are exiting from.
Remember we were using the gamepad, and
it was pushing a button that was exiting
the fullscreen, well,
I'm just calling that.
And also,
you can check the event fullscreenchange,
because the user can typically get out
of full screen with the Escape key.
Or on the phone dragging from the top, or
maybe doing some gesture or something.
And in that case, based on the user,
you will get that event fire.
Make sense?
So going back to our code in,
This is actually in Cooking.js.
We have here the event handlers for
fullscreenchange,
and also for
webkitfullscreenchange for Safari.
And then if we search here,
this is where I'm requesting full screen.
First, I'm verifying if
requestFullscreen exists
in Cooking.root,
it's actually an element in the DOM.
If it's there,
I'm executing that function, if not,
I'm verifying if the prefix
version exists, and then call it.
And something similar when you
disconnect the full screen.
That's the only part that is tricky.
But fortunately for all of you that
are doing this workshop today,
these are just the two
API's with that problem.
Ten years ago, most of the APIs were
prefixed, and also CSS were prefixed.
So every call to a capability API
was actually really complicated.
Lot of version,
we had the ms prefix for IE,
we had the moz prefix for
Mozilla, and the webkit prefix.
Payment Request API.
So this is an API that
will let the browser be
in the middle between you,
actually the user,
your user, and a payment processor.
So we have the merchant,
that's you, that's us, the user,
and a payment processor.
Can be PayPal, Stripe, companies
that are working with credit cards,
debit cards, and are doing this stuff.
The API is in the middle.
So also, on iOS,
you can use this API to use Apple Pay.
But also Apple has its
own JavaScript library,
in case you wanna use
Apple Pay separately.
So you can use Apple Pay.
Apple Pay is the ability
that some countries, or
Apple has in some countries,
only to actually pay with Touch ID or
Face ID on your phone or
your laptop on Safari.
So we are not going to
see the code directly,
I'm just going to give you the idea, why?
Because unless you are working
at the payment processor,
typically you don't use
this code directly.
You use an SDK, a library,
from Stripe or Paypal or
other payment processors,
and you just use it.
They are using the Payment Request API,
not you directly.
But actually the idea
is that the site will
call the API directly or
through a library.
We are here, then the browser UI and
native dialog, such as the one you
see here, will collect the payment
details, credit card, all the stuff.
And then it goes directly,
the browser passes that response,
to the processor site, okay?
Actually, you as a web developer, you
will never see the credit card details,
that's the idea.
So we as web developer, we won't get
the credit card numbers or anything.
The idea is to avoid that.
And also because it's
targeting native dialogs.
For example, on Android,
you can have your Google Wallet
set up with your credit card.
So it's just a one tap to buy, you don't
need to type any credit card or anything.
And on Apple Pay,
it's just putting your finger or
putting your face and accept the payment,
and typically that's all.
Okay, so that's the capability today
on every browser, payment request.